PREVIOUSLY ON
DAWSON'S CREEK...
JOEY, WE WON...
THE BOSTON
FILM FESTIVAL.
I WAS HOPING THAT YOU
WOULD PRODUCE AGAIN.
I DON'T THINK I CAN.
I...
MAYBE IT'S TIME FOR
A LITTLE IMPULSIVE BEHAVIOR
FOR A CHANGE, DAWSON.
[LAUGHS]
ONE MINUTE YOU'RE
LAUGHING, AND THE NEXT
YOU'RE IN TEARS.
I'M FINE, JACK.
MAYBE IT'S TIME YOU WENT
BACK ON YOUR MEDICATION.
MY MOTHER AND MY SISTER,
THEY DEPEND ON ME
TO BE THE ROCK. ME.
I UNDERSTAND IT.
I JUST WISH YOU'D
LET ME HELP YOU.
I CAN'T BELIEVE
YOU'RE SAYING THIS.
I MEAN, AFTER ALL THESE YEARS
OF HIDING BEHIND HIGHBROW
ANALYTICAL POSTURING--
I'M SAYING IT.
I LOVE YOU.
I--I KNOW
IT'S NONSENSICAL.
"NONSENSICAL"? IT'S INSANE.
WE'VE KNOWN EACH OTHER
FOR 15 YEARS.
YOU COULDN'T FIND SOME OTHER
TIME TO FREUDIAN SLIP THIS CAT
OUT OF THE BAG?
I'VE WANTED TO...
SO MANY TIMES.
YOU HAVE NO IDEA
HOW LONG I'VE BEEN
WRESTLING INTERNALLY
WITH THE PSYCHOLOGICAL
REPERCUSSIONS
OF MY FEELINGS.
I NEED SOME TIME TO PROCESS.
I MEAN, MY ELECTRICAL SYNAPSES
ARE ON OVERLOAD HERE.
MY BRAIN IS TELLING ME
ONE THING, BUT MY HEART,
IT SAYS ANOTHER.
IT'S TELLING ME THAT I SHOULD
CONSIDER THE UNEQUIVOCAL,
HIGHLY IRRATIONAL,
POSSIBLY DAMAGING
PROPOSITION OF...
OF LOVING YOU BACK.
WAIT...
YOU MISSED A LINE.
YOU FORGOT
HYPNOTICALLY SCARRING...
SO IF YOU WANT IT DONE
RIGHT, YOU GET AN ACTOR.
I'M NOT EXACTLY COMFORTABLE
PLAYING THE GIRL HERE.
SO WHAT DO YOU THINK?
I MEAN, DO YOU
THINK IT WOULD MAKE
A GOOD MOVIE?
YOU WRITE
IN TOO MANY SYLLABLES.
AND WHAT'S WITH ALL THIS
PSYCHOBABBLE INSIGHT?
HOW MANY TEENAGERS
DO YOU KNOW
THAT TALK LIKE THAT?
SYLLABLES ASIDE,
DO YOU THINK IT WILL
MAKE A GOOD MOVIE?
YEAH, YEAH. HOWEVER,
YOU DID MAKE JOEY A LITTLE
BIT ON THE ANGRY SIDE,
EVEN FOR HER.
[LAUGHS]
THAT'S NOT JOEY.
RIGHT. THAT'S NOT JOEY,
THE GUY'S NOT YOU,
AND YOU'RE NOT DISSECTING
YOU TWO'S RELATIONSHIP
ON THE PAGE
JUST LIKE EVERY OTHER
NARCISSISTIC WRITER
THROUGH HISTORY.
JUST TELL ME
WHAT YOU THINK.
WELL, I THINK IT'S DARK.
IT'S OBTUSE.
IT'S VERY UN-DAWSON LEERY.
THANK YOU.
I...THIS IS THE FIRST TIME
I'VE BEEN ABLE TO WRITE
SOMETHING
THAT'S NOT
JUST PLOT DRIVEN,
BUT ALSO
EMOTIONALLY DRIVEN.
WELL, CONGRATULATIONS.
YOU'RE EVOLVING AS
AN ARTIST.
IT'S ABOUT TIME I TOOK
SOME RISKS, YOU KNOW.
RIDE THE EDGE A LITTLE.
WELL,
IF THAT'S THE CASE,
I DO HAVE ONE NOTE.
WHICH IS?
WHY DON'T THEY HAVE SEX?
I MEAN, I KNOW YOU AND
JOEY NEVER DID
IN REAL LIFE,
BUT THIS IS A FILM.
YOU CAN WRITE IT ANY WAY
YOU WANT.
YOU KNOW,
TAKE THE RISKY PLUNGE.
AH, SEE, I HAVE.
HOW MANY MOVIES DO YOU
SEE WHERE A BUNCH
OF HORNY TEENAGERS
JUST GO AT IT
LIKE RABBITS? HUH?
I MEAN, THAT'S
THE SAFE CHOICE.
THE RISKY, EDGIER CHOICE
IS TO HAVE THEM NOT DO IT.
ONLY YOU TAKE YOUR
VIRGINAL INSECURITIES
AND FEAR OF DEFLOWERMENT
AND TURN THEM INTO
RISKY, EDGY BEHAVIOR.
OH, YEAH, I HAVE NO
PROBLEM BEING A VIRGIN.
I'M SORRY IF MY...CONFIDENCE
AND MY CONVICTIONS
DISCOMBOBULATE YOU.
"DISCOMBOBULATE"?
HOW MANY SYLLABLES
IS THAT?
[♪♪♪]
Jen: HEY, WE'RE
HOLDING AUDITIONS
FOR A MOVIE TODAY
HOPE YOU CAN MAKE IT.
HEY.
HEY, YOU.
SO HOW'S INTEREST?
ARE WE GONNA HAVE
A TURNOUT?
AS A FIRST-TIME PRODUCER,
MY INSTINCTS TELL ME WE'RE
GONNA HAVE A HUGE TURNOUT,
DAWSON.
COOL.
WE'RE HOLDING AUDITIONS
FOR A MOVIE TODAY.
COME ON BY, ALL RIGHT?
YOU'RE SUCH A NATURAL.
YOU'RE SO GOOD AT THIS.
OH, THANKS.
DON'T EXPECT TOO MUCH.
I MEAN, I'M NO JOEY.
PLEASE.
SHE DIDN'T HAVE
ANY EXPERIENCE EITHER
WHEN SHE FIRST STARTED.
YOU'RE GONNA BE GOOD.
I HAVE THE UTMOST
CONFIDENCE IN YOU.
WHY, THANK YOU.
MR. WRITER SLASH DIRECTOR.
[LAUGHS]
HEY, BE SURE YOU GET
A FLIER TO JAMES LOWELL.
HE'D BE PERFECT FOR
THE LEAD.
EW!
EW?
JEN, HE'S LIKE
THE CLASSIC LEADING GUY.
HE'S KIND, HE'S FUNNY,
HE'S SELF-EFFACING.
HE'S LIKE JIMMY STEWART
MEETS TOM HANKS.
YEAH, AND ABOUT AS SEXY
AS A BUCKET, DAWSON.
OK.
NOW, DAVE FACHELLI,
THAT'S A LEADING MAN.
EXCUSE ME?
YEAH, HE'S LIKE DARK
AND BROODING AND...
RAY LIOTTA MEETS--
SEWER RAT. NO WAY.
I'M JUST SAYING HE'S GOT
A CERTAIN...APPEAL.
I MEAN, PEOPLE DON'T
NECESSARILY GO TO THE MOVIES
TO SEE THEIR KIND, SWEET,
NEXT DOOR NEIGHBOR.
THEY GO TO SEE THAT
SLIGHTLY DANGEROUS GUY
THAT THEY DESPERATELY
WANT TO SLEEP WITH,
BUT NEVER WILL IN REAL LIFE.
SEXY WILL ALWAYS
WIN OUT OVER NICE.
I'M JUST SAYING THAT
EVERYBODY CASTS TOM HANKS,
YOU KNOW?
TRY AND MAKE
A LESS OBVIOUS CHOICE.
HEY, MOVIE AUDITIONS TODAY.
[♪♪♪]
[CLEARS THROAT]
HEY! WHAT'S THIS?
THE RESULTS OF
PACEY WITTER'S HIV TEST.
YOU GOT TESTED?
YOU TOLD ME TO.
BUT YOU ARGUED WITH ME.
ANDIE, I ALWAYS ARGUE
WITH YOU.
IT DOESN'T MEAN
I DON'T LISTEN.
AND...?
AND IT'S NEGATIVE,
WHICH IS POSITIVE
IN MY BOOK.
CONGRATULATIONS.
I'M PROUD OF YOU.
GETTING TESTED WAS...
VERY RESPONSIBLE OF YOU.
JUST DON'T THINK THAT,
YOU KNOW, NOW THAT YOU
GOT TESTED THAT, UM...
WE'RE GOING TO...
YOU KNOW.
WHAT?
NO, ANDIE, I HAVE NO IDEA
WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT.
OK, UM...YOU KNOW,
WE HAVEN'T BEEN VERY...
PHYSICAL...OR ANYTHING.
AND, UM...I'M NOT OPPOSED
TO US BECOMING MORE...
INTIMATE, BUT I
JUST WANT YOU TO KNOW
THAT EVERYTHING'S GOT ITS
PERFECT PLACE AND TIME, OK?
I DIDN'T GET TESTED
TO ENGAGE IN ANY
UNINHIBITED SCRUMPING
WITH YOU.
I GOT TESTED FOR ME.
I DON'T WANT TO JUMP
IN THE SACK WITH YOU.
OH.
WELL, WHY NOT EXACTLY?
I MEAN...
DO YOU NOT FIND ME
ATTRACTIVE?
OF COURSE I FIND YOU
ATTRACTIVE, ANDIE.
BUT YOU DON'T WANT TO?
DO YOU WANT TO?
I ASKED YOU.
WELL, I'M ASKING YOU
BACK.
YOU FIRST.
I'D LIKE TO SCRUMP WITH
YOU ANY DAY OF THE WEEK,
BUT...WE'VE GOT ALL
THE TIME IN THE WORLD.
THERE'S NO NEED TO RUSH
INTO ANYTHING.
I KNOW. I HEAR YOU,
AND I CONCUR.
WELL...GOOD.
BUT IF IT WERE THE RIGHT
TIME AND PLACE,
YOU WOULD WANT TO, RIGHT?
OH, HELL, YES.
OK. GOOD. TILL THEN.
UNTIL.
HEY.
MOVIE AUDITIONS.
ART CLASS.
I SEE YOU GRADUATED
FROM FRUIT BOWLS.
WE'RE DOING LIFE
SKETCHING. NUDE MODELS.
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO SEE
THE HUMAN FORM AS A MASS
OF LINES AND SHADOWS.
REALLY?
I'M WORKING ON IT.
AND HE JUST POSES FOR YOU?
YEAH.
DO YOU FIND THAT
UNCOMFORTABLE?
JUST SITTING IN A ROOM
WITH SOME GUY COMPLETELY
IN THE BUFF
RIGHT IN FRONT OF YOU?
NO.
DOES HE LIKE...
TALK OR ANYTHING?
OH, YEAH. HE SINGS,
TELLS JOKES,
DOES A LITTLE SOFT SHOE.
NO, HE DOESN'T TALK,
DAWSON.
HE'S A MODEL.
HE SITS THERE.
HE JUST TAKES BREAKS
EVERY NOW AND THEN.
AND LITTLE JOEY POTTER
DOESN'T BLUSH?
NO.
NOT EVEN A LITTLE?
MAYBE A LITTLE.
JUST A LITTLE?
OK, I'VE
BROKEN 12 PENCILS,
BUT IT'S GETTING BETTER.
YOU'D BE SURPRISED,
DAWSON. I'M CHANGING.
I'M NOT LITTLE
JOEY POTTER ANYMORE.
NO, YOU'RE CERTAINLY NOT.
Jen: AUDITIONS.
COME, PLEASE.
JEN'S YOUR PRODUCER.
Jen: AUDITIONS TODAY.
YEAH, YEAH.
I MEAN, YOU'RE BUSY.
SO WHAT'S YOUR MOVIE
ABOUT?
UM...
A YOUNG BOY COMES OF AGE
IN A--IN A SMALL TOWN.
WELL, GOOD LUCK WITH IT,
DAWSON.
THANK YOU. YEAH, GOTTA GO.
TIME IS MONEY.
[♪♪♪]
HEY, YOU GONNA AUDITION
FOR DAWSON'S MOVIE?
PARTICIPATE
IN DAWSON LEERY'S
LAME HOME VIDEO PROJECT?
DOUBTFUL. WHY, ARE YOU?
I WAS THINKING ABOUT IT.
I GOT THE AUDITION PIECE.
I WAS LOOKING THROUGH IT.
AND HE'S GOT FINANCING.
HE'S GONNA DO THE FESTIVAL
CIRCUIT.
IT COULD BE AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR SOME HOLLYWOOD-TYPE
EXPOSURE.
YEAH, RIGHT. ARE YOU
HAVING DELUSIONS
OF BRAD PITTITIS?
I THINK I'D MAKE A PRETTY
GOOD ACTOR ACTUALLY.
AND ACTORS GET ACTION.
I MEAN, I FORESEE
A NON-STOP PARTY.
I WAS THINKING MAYBE YOU
AND I COULD READ TOGETHER.
YOU AND ME?
YEAH, COME ON.
I THINK WE'D HAVE SOME
SERIOUS CHEMISTRY.
COME ON,
AUDITION WITH ME.
SALIVATE ELSEWHERE.
I COULDN'T BE LESS
INTERESTED.
WOW!
DON'T LOOK.
I'VE SEEN A NAKED GUY
BEFORE, JOEY.
YEAH, BUT NOT DRAWN
WITH THE TALENT
OF A SECOND GRADER.
TRUST ME. I'M DOING
YOUR EYES A FAVOR.
COME ON. LET ME SEE.
LET ME SEE.
WOW! IT'S GOOD USE
OF LIGHT AND DARK,
ESPECIALLY AROUND THE SIDE.
I MEAN, IT'S VERY DRAMATIC.
SHADING'S EXCELLENT.
REALLY?
YEAH.
THE LINES ARE STRONG.
UH, EVERYTHING SEEMS TO...
BE IN PROPORTION.
UH...THE REALNESS--
OH! GOD, JOEY!
I'M SORRY. I'M SORRY.
I'M SORRY.
Joey:
I GOTTA GO.
I CAN'T BELIEVE
YOU'RE SAYING THIS
AFTER ALL THESE YEARS
OF HIDING BEHIND HIGHBROW
ANALYTICAL POSSUMING--
Boy: I LOVE YOU.
I KNOW IT'S NONSENSICAL.
NONSENSICAL? IT'S INSANE!
WE'VE KNOWN EACH OTHER
FOR 15 YEARS.
SOMEWHERE IN THERE YOU
COULDN'T FIND THE TIME
TO FREUDIAN SLIP--
SO MANY TIMES, BUT YOU
DON'T KNOW HOW LONG
I'VE WRESTLED INTERNALLY
WITH THE PSYCHOLOGICAL
REPERCUSSIONS
OF MY FEELINGS--
YOU DON'T KNOW HOW LONG
I'VE BEEN STRUGGLING
INTERNALLY
WITH MY PSYCHOLOGICAL
REPRODUCTIONS--
BUT MY HEART SAYS
SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
THAT I SHOULD CONSIDER
THE UNEQUIVOCAL,
POSSIBLY DAMAGING,
HIGHLY IRRATIONAL,
HYPNOTICALLY SCARRING
PROPOSITION OF...
OF LOVING YOU BACK.
COOL.
[♪♪♪]
LISTEN, I'M SORRY.
UH...CAN YOU SAVE IT?
OH, GOD.
ALL RIGHT, LOOK.
I-I'M SORRY. I MEAN...
CAN I DO ANYTHING? WHAT?
THERE'S NOTHING YOU
CAN DO, JACK. IT'S DUE THURSDAY.
I'M ALREADY
THE YOUNGEST AND LEAST-
EXPERIENCED IN THE CLASS,
AND NOW I'M GOING TO SHOW UP
WITH AN INCOMPLETE ASSIGNMENT.
CAN YOU REDRAW IT?
NOT FROM MEMORY. I MEAN,
THIS IS A NUDE MAN, JACK.
I CAN'T JUST RECALL IT
FROM THIN AIR.
THE--THE POSE,
THE COMPOSITION,
THE LIGHT, THE SHADOWS...
I JUST CAN'T RECREATE THAT.
UM...
LET ME POSE FOR YOU.
WHAT?
YEAH. NO, I'M SERIOUS.
LET ME POSE FOR YOU.
NO BIG DEAL.
YOU WANT TO POSE FOR ME
NAKED?
UH-HUH. YEAH.
UH, LET ME
THINK ABOUT THAT.
NO.
Jack: WELL...
OK, UH, UH, OK,
WHAT HAPPENS IF YOU
DON'T TURN IT IN?
I GET AN "F," NOT
TO MENTION EMBARRASSMENT
AND FEELINGS
OF TREMENDOUS INADEQUACY.
THAT'S IT.
I'M POSING FOR YOU.
NO, YOU'RE NOT.
FREAKED ABOUT
SEEING ME NAKED?
AH, THE "JOEY'S A PRUDE"
TACTIC. CLEVER, BUT WRONG.
ALL RIGHT. WELL THEN,
WHAT IS IT?
I MEAN, YOU SCARED
IT MIGHT GET SEXUAL
OR SOMETHING?
YOU KNOW, BELIEVE IT
OR NOT, JACK,
NOT EVERY MOMENT WITH YOU
IS SEXUALLY CHARGED.
SORRY.
WELL, THEN THERE
SHOULD BE NO PROBLEM.
COME ON, LOOK,
I FEEL AWFUL ABOUT THIS.
I DON'T WANT YOU FAILING
YOUR FIRST ART PROJECT
BECAUSE OF ME,
SO LET ME HELP YOU.
YOU'RE SERIOUS,
AREN'T YOU?
I'M DEAD SERIOUS.
I HAVE HUGE GUILT
ABOUT THINGS LIKE THIS.
SO DON'T FEEL WEIRD
'CAUSE I DON'T.
I DON'T KNOW, JACK.
I DON'T THINK THIS
IS A GOOD THING FOR US.
I MEAN WE SHOULD--
STRICTLY
PROFESSIONAL, OK?
I MEAN, COME ON, JOEY,
THIS IS YOUR ART.
WELL...
I GUESS THE MALE FORM
IS JUST THE MALE FORM.
GOOD. IT'S SETTLED.
I'LL BE BY YOUR HOUSE
TOMORROW AROUND 7:00.
YEAH.
WH--
[♪♪♪]
Man: THERE YOU GO, MISS.
THANK YOU.
CAREFUL OF THE DOSAGE.
I PUT A PAMPHLET IN THERE
FOR YOU.
I'M FAMILIAR WITH
THE DRUG, THANK YOU.
HEY, THERE, McPHEE.
WHAT'S SHAKIN'?
HEY! PACEY. HI.
[NERVOUS LAUGH]
WHAT YOU GOT IN THE BAG?
UH, NOTHING.
HEY, UH...
PACEY, PLEASE.
JUST GIVE IT BACK!
UH, "ANDREA McPHEE.
TAKE 2 TABLETS DAILY
AS DIRECTED.
ZANAX."
ZANAX. THAT'S, UH...
THAT'S FOR SEVERE
DEPRESSION AND ANXIETY,
RIGHT?
IT'S LIKE PROZAC, SO...
UH, IT'S MY MOM'S.
WE HAVE THE SAME
FIRST NAME--ANDREA.
UM...PLEASE, PACEY,
YOU KNOW I'M SENSITIVE
ABOUT HER.
YEAH, YEAH,
I'M REALLY SORRY.
I DIDN'T KNOW. OH, GOD.
IT'S OK.
YOU'RE SUCH
A GOOD DAUGHTER.
[LAUGHS]
SO WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE?
OH--
[CLEARS THROAT]
NOTHING.
I WAS JUST PICKING UP
SOME STUFF.
IN THE, UH,
CONDOM SECTION?
[STUMBLING]
I HAD NO IDEA.
IT'S VERY ODD,
DON'T YOU THINK?
YOU DON'T THINK THIS
IS A SIGN, LIKE THE LOVE
GODS ARE TRYIN' TO...
HELP US OUT OR--
NO, I THINK
THAT WOULD BE YOU.
I'M JUST ENGAGING
IN A LITTLE INNUENDO
IN THE HOPES
THAT MAYBE SOMEDAY
IT'LL LEAD TO SOMETHING
A LITTLE MORE...
TANGIBLE.
HEY, I MEAN, I'M ALL
FOR DISCOVERING THE, UH,
PHYSICAL SIDE
OF PACEY WITTER.
I JUST DON'T KNOW THAT
I'M ENTIRELY PREPARED YET.
WELL, PLEASE...
BE PREPARED.
HEY, UH...LOOK,
"DESIGNED FOR THAT WOMAN'S
EXTRA PLEASURE."
YEAH, HOW WOULD THEY KNOW?
MAYBE THEY'RE DESIGNED
BY WOMEN.
OH. GOOD POINT.
SO, UH...
SHOULD WE GET SOME?
WHAT?
WELL, I MEAN YOU'RE RIGHT.
WE SHOULD BE PREPARED.
IN CASE THAT MOOD STRIKES,
THEN, UH...
WE'LL BE READY.
ARE YOU BEING SERIOUS?
IT'S NOT A BAD IDEA
TO HAVE THEM ON STAND-BY.
I MEAN, WE CAN BE ADULTS
ABOUT THIS.
UH...
YOU'RE SERIOUS.
ISN'T THERE ANYONE
ELSE I CAN READ WITH?
Dawson: ABBY,
WE'RE SHORT ON TIME.
IF YOU COULD JUST START
AT PAGE 3, THAT'D BE GREAT.
SURE, DAWSON,
BUT CAN I JUST ASK
A QUICK QUESTION?
WHAT IS IT, CHRIS?
I JUST...
I DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY
THEY DON'T EVER DO IT.
I MEAN, YOU HAVE ALL
THE HOT FOREPLAY STUFF,
BUT THEY NEVER HOOK UP.
RIGHT.
WELL, SEE, YOUR CHARACTER
BELIEVES THAT SOMETIMES
TRUE LOVE
GOES BEYOND THAT WHICH
IS MERELY PHYSICAL.
Chris: YEAH.
YOU SEE, THAT'S JUST
THE PART I DON'T GET.
YEAH, YOU KNOW WHAT,
DAWSON, I THINK YOU
SHOULD RETHINK THAT PART.
IT'S A LITTLE HEADY.
OK, UH, YOU KNOW,
YOU GUYS,
WHY DON'T WE JUST
KEEP MOVING WITH
THE SCENE, OK?
I'VE WANTED TO...
SO MANY TIMES.
YOU DON'T KNOW HOW LONG
I'VE WRESTLED INTERNALLY
WITH THE PSYCHOLOGICAL
REPERCUSSIONS
OF MY FEELINGS.
Abby: I NEED SOME TIME
TO PROCESS HERE.
MY ELECTRICAL SYNAPSES
ARE ON OVERLOAD.
MY BRAIN SAYS ONE THING,
BUT MY HEART
SAYS SOMETHING ELSE.
THAT I SHOULD CONSIDER
THE UNEQUIVOCAL,
POSSIBLY DAMAGING,
HIGHLY IRRATIONAL,
HYPNOTICALLY SCARRING,
PROPOSITION OF...
OF LOVING YOU BACK.
WAIT.
UNH...
WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT,
YOU LUG-NECKED FREAK?
A KISS.
IT'S IN THE SCRIPT.
THAT WAS YOUR TONGUE
IN MY MOUTH.
SORRY, I WAS JUST
GETTING INTO THE ROLE.
NO, YOU WERE TRYING
TO GET INTO MY PANTS.
GOD, I'M GOING TO BE SICK.
SHALL I CONTINUE?
THAT'LL BE ALL.
THANK YOU.
I'VE PUT LOTS OF FANTASY
THOUGHT INTO THIS,
AND I WANT MY FIRST TIME
TO BE SPECIAL.
YOU KNOW,
THE PERFECT EVENING.
LIKE, DINNER AT A FRENCH
RESTAURANT,
A ROMANTIC AFTER-DINNER
STROLL BY THE DOCK,
AND THEN ONTO A NICE
HISTORIC BED AND BREAKFAST.
A BED AND BREAKFAST?
IT'S MY FANTASY,
GO WITH IT.
LAVENDER CANDLES...AND, UH,
SINATRA, OR SOMEBODY EQUALLY
AS OLD-STYLE AND ROMANTIC.
OK. SCHEDULE
IN BATHROOM BREAKS,
OR DOES THE POOR GUY
HAVE TO HOLD IT
ALL EVENING?
OK, I'M SORRY, BUT DECIDING
TO LOSE MY VIRGINITY
IS A HUGE DEAL, OK?
I MEAN, I DIDN'T HOLD
ONTO IT FOR 16 YEARS
JUST TO LOSE IT IN ONE
DRUNK FLEETING MOMENT
IN SOME SKANKY BACK SEAT
OF A LATE MODEL AMERICAN
CAR, OK?
DAMN!
SOMEBODY'S
LEAKING ALL MY BEST
LOVEMAKING SECRETS.
IT'S JUST THAT...
I'M GOING TO REMEMBER THIS
FOR THE REST OF MY LIFE,
AND I JUST THINK THAT
IF WE PUT A LITTLE PLANNING
INTO IT,
TO ENSURE THAT
IT'S WORTH REMEMBERING,
IT WOULD BE REALLY NICE.
I KNOW HOW IMPORTANT
THE FIRST TIME IS.
BELIEVE ME,
OF ALL PEOPLE, I KNOW.
AND I KNOW
WITH MY TAINTED PAST,
I MIGHT NOT BE THE MOST
LIKELY OF CANDIDATES,
BUT IF AND WHEN
YOU DO DECIDE IT'S
THE RIGHT TIME FOR YOU,
I'D REALLY
LIKE TO BE THE ONE
THAT HELPS TO MAKE IT
A MEMORABLE EVENING.
WELL, WHEN YOU
TALK LIKE THAT,
IT MAKES ME
WANT TO JUMP YOU.
OH, REALLY?
YES.
[♪♪♪]
Dawson:
IT'S JUST SO FRUSTRATING
TO HAVE THIS DREAM
OF MAKING THIS MOVIE,
TO ACTUALLY GET THE MONEY
TO MAKE THE MOVIE,
AND THEN REALIZING THAT
IT STILL MIGHT NOT HAPPEN.
JUST LIKE IN THE SCRIPT.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
I MEAN, YOU AND JOEY.
YOU'RE IN LOVE WITH HER
FOR 15 YEARS,
AND THEN WHEN YOU'RE
JUST ABOUT TO HAVE HER,
YOU LOSE HER. TRAGIC.
THE SCRIPT
IS NOT ABOUT JOEY.
DAWSON, GIVE ME A BREAK.
IT READS LIKE
AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
IT'S FUNNY.
I THOUGHT THAT...
WE HAD SOMETHING, TOO,
BUT...
EVEN WITH MY FLAIR
FOR THE DRAMATIC,
MY ROLE'S BEEN REDUCED
TO THE FIRST ACT.
JEN, YOU WERE IMPORTANT
TO ME. YOU KNOW THAT.
WAS I?
ABSOLUTELY.
MORE THAN YOU KNOW.
THEN I--I WANT TO ASK
YOU SOMETHING, DAWSON--
SINCE WE'RE FRIENDS
AND ALL--UM...
WHAT DID YOU LIKE
ABOUT ME?
WHAT DID I LIKE ABOUT YOU?
WE HAVE FUN TOGETHER...
YOU KNOW...
I MEAN, YOU...YOU OPEN
ME UP TO STUFF.
SKINNY-DIPPING DIDN'T SUCK.
YOU KNOW, YOU WERE...
YOU WERE SEXY.
WERE?
ARE. ARE.
YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT
CHRIS AND ABBY ARE RIGHT
ABOUT YOUR SCRIPT.
I THINK THAT THE 2 YOUNG
LOVERS SHOULD DO IT.
IT'S ABOUT ROMANCE,
NOT SEX.
WHO SAYS THAT SEX CAN'T BE
ROMANTIC, DAWSON? COME ON.
I MEAN, LOOK AT
YOUR TARGET AUDIENCE.
I WANTED TO MAKE THE
LESS OBVIOUS CHOICE.
[LAUGHS]
THAT'S FUNNY WHEN YOU
THINK ABOUT IT.
WHAT?
JUST THAT, IF YOU HADN'T
GONE FOR SUCH AN OBVIOUS
CHOICE OF GIRL,
MAYBE THE ENDING TO YOUR SCRIPT
WOULD HAVE BEEN A LITTLE
LESS OBVIOUS.
[♪♪♪]
Jack: I'M COMING OUT.
UM...
JACK McPHEE
REPORTING FOR DUTY.
WHERE--WHERE DO YOU
WANT ME?
UM, YOU COULD, UH,
SIT ON THE COUCH
OR--OR THE CHAIR.
OR YOU COULD STAND,
OR I COULD MOVE.
UH, WHY DON'T I JUST
TAKE THE COUCH?
OK.
YOU KNOW, JOEY, IF--IF
YOU'RE UNCOMFORTABLE AT ALL,
I--I CAN, YOU KNOW, KEEP
THE TOWEL ON FOR A WHILE,
JUST UNTIL
WE GET LOOSENED UP.
YOU KNOW, YOU CAN KIND
OF SKETCH AROUND...
IT.
JACK, I'M FINE.
YOU KNOW, WHATEVER.
UH--UH, OK.
YOU KNOW WHAT?
YOU'RE PROBABLY RIGHT.
MAYBE--MAYBE THE TOWEL
IS A GOOD IDEA.
I MEAN, IT'LL GIVE ME
A CHANCE TO CONCENTRATE
ON THE...
THE TOP PART.
OH, DEJA VU.
THIS IS JUST LIKE
THAT SCENE FROM TITANIC.
[JACK LAUGHS]
OH, RIGHT. YEAH.
EXCEPT I'M JACK AND...
YOU'RE ROSE.
ROLE REVERSAL.
I LIKE IT.
LOOK, JOEY, IF YOU'RE NOT
GONNA MAKE IT, WE CAN STOP
THIS AT ANY TIME.
YOU KNOW, UM...
MAYBE IF WE JUST
DIDN'T TALK.
UM, THE MODEL IN CLASS
KINDA JUST SAT AND
STARED OUT THE WINDOW.
AND, YOU KNOW,
SINCE WE ARE JUST...
STARTING TO GET TO KNOW
EACH OTHER, I JUST...
I'LL ADMIT IT HAS
MADE ME SLIGHTLY
UNCOMFORTABLE.
WELL...JUST IMAGINE HOW
COMFORTABLE WE'RE GONNA
BE AROUND EACH OTHER
AFTER TONIGHT.
YOU KNOW, JACK, UM...
I CAN'T DO THIS.
YOU KNOW,
I JUST DON'T THINK
THIS IS A GOOD IDEA.
I MEAN, I TRIED TO BE
ADULT ABOUT THIS,
AND NOT BEHAVE LIKE
LITTLE JOEY POTTER,
BUT THE TRUTH IS, YOU KNOW,
I'M REALLY NOT THAT
EXPERIENCED WITH...
UM, A LOT OF THINGS.
AND I REALLY DON'T THINK
I COULD HANDLE SEEING YOU
NAKED RIGHT NOW,
SO IF YOU COULD PROBABLY
JUST GET DRESSED
AND GO HOME, THAT WOULD...
WHAT ABOUT
YOUR SKETCH?
YEAH, I'LL FIGURE OUT
SOME WAY TO FUDGE IT.
ARE YOU SURE?
YES, I'M SURE!
WELL, UM...
[CLEARS THROAT]
MIGHT AS WELL
STAY NOW.
UH...
[♪♪♪]
SO, UH, AHEM...
HOW'S IT LOOK?
"IT"?
OH, IT'S COMING ALONG FINE.
I'M SORRY.
AND HOW YOU DOING?
SURPRISINGLY WELL.
YOU KNOW, NO SIGN
OF HEART FAILURE, SO...
IT'S ACTUALLY--IT'S...
IT'S OK.
IT FEELS KIND OF...
NATURAL?
UM...SORT OF.
IT'S MORE LIKE
AN ACCOMPLISHMENT.
I KNOW, THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT MOST PEOPLE WOULD
JUST ASSUME
THAT JOEY COULD NOT DO.
WHY IS THAT?
I MEAN, YOU SEE HOW I LIVE.
I DON'T GET OUT MUCH, AND...
I GUESS MY LIFE JUST SEEMS
KIND OF PLAIN SOMETIMES.
DOES THAT BOTHER YOU?
UM...YEAH, SOMETIMES.
A GOOD THING
THAT I'VE DISCOVERED
ABOUT THIS WHOLE ART THING
IS THAT IT ALLOWS ME
TO TAKE CHANCES, YOU KNOW?
I MEAN, THIS HERE IS RISKY.
ART IS RISKY 'CAUSE...
YOU KNOW, EVERY TIME I DRAW
OR PAINT OR TAKE A CLASS,
I JUST...
I FEEL LIKE I'M DOING
SOMETHING SPECIAL.
YOU KNOW, JUST FOR ME.
DOES THAT MAKE SENSE?
IT FEELS DANGEROUS.
YEAH. YEAH.
WHY IS THAT?
ART IS ABOUT A WORLD
OF UNCERTAINTY,
AND THAT MAKES IT SCARY.
AND WHAT SCARES YOU?
SEX.
[♪♪♪]
WHY SEX? I MEAN, FEAR OF IT.
FIRST TIME ANXIETY?
OH, NO, NO!
I'M NOT A VIRGIN.
OH.
SO, UM...
HAVE YOU DONE IT A LOT?
WELL, I...I'VE DONE IT
A TOTAL OF, UH...
ONCE.
ALL I KNOW IS I'M
REALLY LUCKY TO HAVE YOU
FOR A FRIEND.
I NEVER COULD HAVE GOTTEN
THROUGH THOSE HORRIFICALLY
EPIC AUDITIONS TODAY.
IT'S MY JOB.
NO, THAT'S ABOVE AND
BEYOND THE CALL OF DUTY.
YOU MUST HAVE HEARD THOSE
LINES READ SO MANY TIMES
YOU HAVE THE WHOLE THING
COMMITTED TO MEMORY.
WELL, THE GOOD THING IS,
IF YOU GET REALLY DESPERATE,
I COULD ALWAYS PLAY
YOUR LEADING LADY.
MAYBE YOU SHOULD HAVE.
SHOULD HAVE WHAT?
BEEN MY LEADING LADY.
YOU THINK?
SOMETIMES.
TOO MUCH OF THE TIME.
Joey: WAS IT SCARY?
Jack: YEAH.
DON'T FEEL BAD. I MEAN,
I HAVEN'T DONE IT AT ALL,
AND IT TERRIFIES ME
FROM AFAR, SO...
YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT
JUST THAT IT WAS SCARY.
I MEAN, THAT WAS PART
OF IT, BUT...
I--I--I...
I DON'T KNOW, IT'S...
IT'S HARD TO DESCRIBE.
YOU KNOW, I'M NOT REALLY
THAT GOOD AT EXPRESSING
MYSELF.
YOU KNOW, I...I GUESS
YOU FOUND MY...
MY SOCIAL FLAW.
COULD YOU TRY?
I KNOW YOU'VE GOT THIS
NOTION THAT IF YOU--
IF YOU DON'T
LET YOUR CHARACTERS
ACT ON THEIR DESIRES,
THEN YOU'RE MAKING
A STRONGER, RISKIER CHOICE,
BUT THAT'S NOT REAL LIFE.
BUT IT'S SO OBVIOUS.
I MEAN THAT...
THE STORY IS MUCH STRONGER
IF THE CHARACTERS RESIST
THEIR LUST.
BUT IT'S NOT REAL.
TRUE LOVE IS ALWAYS
FUELED BY LUST,
AND PEOPLE WHO CARE THAT
MUCH ABOUT EACH OTHER
WILL SOONER OR LATER
END UP HAVING SEX.
EVEN PEOPLE WHO
DON'T CARE THAT MUCH.
AND BESIDES, THIS IS 1998.
SEX IS ALWAYS A RISKY CHOICE.
I JUST DON'T HAPPEN
TO BELIEVE THAT
IT'S AN OBVIOUS ONE.
I THINK THAT
INTENT AND MOTIVE
IS WHAT MAKES SEX
SO INTERESTING, DAWSON.
I MEAN, WHY DO
2 PEOPLE HAVE SEX?
OK, UH, SO THEY'RE IN LOVE.
THAT'S OBVIOUS. WHO CARES?
BUT THEY'RE IN LUST.
SLIGHTLY MORE INTERESTING.
THEY'RE HURTING OVER SOMEONE.
THEY'RE IN PAIN.
TRYING TO FORGET SOMEONE.
THEY'RE IN DENIAL.
THEY'RE LOOKING
FOR A DISTRACTION.
ALL OF A SUDDEN, SEX HAS
JUST BECOME VERY INTERESTING
AND NOT THE OBVIOUS
CHOICE AT ALL.
MAYBE YOU SHOULD THINK
ABOUT A REWRITE, DAWSON.
YOU'VE STILL GOT TIME.
[♪♪♪]
Jack: REALLY?
YOU--YOU WANT TO KNOW?
YEAH.
I MEAN,
NOT THE GORY DETAILS.
JUST...
UH, THE FEELING OF IT.
MAYBE YOU COULD DESCRIBE IT
AS IF IT WERE ART.
WELL...
AT FIRST, IT'S ALL
A JUMBLE OF EMOTIONS.
UH, IT'S HARD TO PINPOINT.
IT'S--IT'S KIND OF LIKE
EXPRESSIONISTIC PAINTING.
BUT, YOU KNOW, IF YOU GET
COMFORTABLE WITH IT,
IT'S--IT'S LIKE
THE FIRST TIME YOU SEE
VAN GOGH'S STARRY NIGHT.
IT'S THE SAME SKY
YOU'VE ALWAYS SEEN,
BUT EVERYTHING...
IS DIFFERENT.
BIGGER.
MORE PASSIONATE.
THE BLUES, THE YELLOWS,
THE SWIRLING STARS...
EVERYTHING HAS FEELING,
MOVEMENT...
EVEN THE COLORS SEEM ALIVE.
IT'S LIKE...LYING
ON MONET'S WATER LILIES,
IT'S--IT'S THE WARMTH
OF A GEORGIA O'KEEFE FLOWER
WRAPPED AROUND YOU...
FEELING EVERYTHING...
SO INTENSELY.
IT'S THE POWER AND STRENGTH
OF A DEGAS DANCER,
IT'S THE PASSION OF...
OF MUNCH'S SCREAM,  THE--
[TELEPHONE RINGS]
[RING]
WHERE ARE WE?
JUST WAIT.
PACEY,
YOU'RE SCARING ME.
WHERE HAVE YOU
TAKEN ME?
WELL, WE JUST ATE
AT PETITE LA BISTRO,
THEN WE WENT FOR A STROLL
ALONG THE DOCKS...
BLINDFOLDED,
I MIGHT ADD.
SO THINK ABOUT IT.
THERE'S ONLY ONE PLACE
WE COULD BE RIGHT NOW,
ISN'T THERE?
PACEY, IF I TAKE OFF THIS
BLINDFOLD AND WE'RE STANDING
IN A BED AND BREAKFAST,
YOU'RE DEAD.
WELL...DISPOSE
OF MY REMAINS NOW.
OH, OH, OH, PACEY.
GOD, I DON'T KNOW
WHETHER TO BE TOUCHED
OR TERRIFIED.
HEY, LISTEN,
YOU KNOW, THIS NIGHT WAS NOT
DESIGNED TO REACH THE VERDICT
OF DOING IT.
I JUST--I WANTED TO GIVE YOU
YOUR FANTASY EVENING.
YOU KNOW, A FRENCH DINNER,
A STROLL ALONG THE DOCKS,
A BED AND BREAKFAST,
ROMANTIC MUSIC.
WE CAN SAVE DOING IT
FOR ANOTHER TIME.
THIS IS
A STEP-BY-STEP PROCESS.
FOR ME, TOO.
OH, PACEY.
WHAT? WHAT'S WRONG?
I...I REALLY WANT
TO DO THIS. I MEAN...
I'D BE LYING
IF I SAID I DIDN'T.
AND...YOU'RE REALLY
SPECIAL TO ME.
BUT, UH, I...
I DON'T--I DON'T THINK
I'M READY FOR THIS
RIGHT NOW.
I MEAN, THERE'S SO MUCH
THAT'S GOING ON THAT
YOU DON'T KNOW ABOUT,
AND THAT I CAN'T EVEN
BEGIN TO TELL YOU,
UM, I--I...
I CAN'T DO THIS.
I-I'M SORRY, PACEY.
IT'S OK.
I CAN'T DO THIS.
WHY? DON'T WORRY.
IT'S NO BIG DEAL.
I TOLD YOU.
WE CAN WAIT. HONESTLY...
I THINK I BROUGHT YOU HERE
TONIGHT AS MUCH FOR ME
AS I DID FOR YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO GIVE YOU
YOUR FANTASY EVENING,
YOU KNOW, SO...
PLEASE DON'T BE UPSET
WITH ME.
YOU HAVE NO IDEA
WHAT YOU'VE DONE FOR ME,
JUST BEING IN MY LIFE.
I MEAN, YOU MAKE ME FEEL
LIKE MAYBE THERE'S HOPE
FOR MY PATHETIC EXISTENCE,
AND I DON'T HAVE TO SLEEP
WITH YOU TO FEEL THAT.
I FEEL IT RIGHT NOW,
JUST HOLDING YOU IN MY ARMS.
GOD, I AM SO LUCKY.
YOU KNOW WHAT, WITTER?
YOU MAKE ME
WANT TO DO IT.
[♪♪♪]
LISTEN, I'M REALLY SORRY.
LISTEN, JACK,
IT'S OK, YOU KNOW,
DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT.
STUFF HAPPENS.
ALTHOUGH NOT USUALLY
THAT KIND OF STUFF
AND USUALLY NOT IN THE
POTTER LIVING ROOM.
I DIDN'T THINK IT WOULD
BE SUCH A BIG DEAL FOR ME
TO POSE FOR YOU.
YEAH, WELL...
LISTEN, UM...
IS THIS GONNA
SCREW THINGS UP WITH US?
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
WELL, I MEAN, I DIDN'T
WANT TO BRING SEX IN THIS
EVENING, YOU KNOW.
ALL I WANTED TO DO
WAS HELP YOU.
UH, I DON'T WANT YOU
TO THINK 'CAUSE A...
ALL THIS STUFF...
HERE WE GO AGAIN.
SOCIAL FLAW.
WELL, LET'S BE HONEST
WITH OURSELVES.
YES, WE BOTH CAME
IN HERE WITH THE NOBLEST
OF INTENTIONS.
BUT, YOU KNOW,
AT THE END OF THE DAY,
WE'RE BOTH HUMAN,
AND...THERE'S SOMETHING
BETWEEN US THAT'S...
YOU KNOW, IT'S A...
UH...
IS YOUR SOCIAL FLAW
CONTAGIOUS?
UH, YEAH...
GOD, I WAS SO NAIVE
TO THINK THAT THIS WAS
A GOOD IDEA.
NO, I TAKE
FULL RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THIS EVENING'S
TURN OF EVENTS.
I MEAN, IT'S MY FAULT.
I ASKED TO HEAR IT.
THAT'S TRUE.
ACTUALLY, I THINK--
I THINK IT WAS YOUR FAULT.
IT'S...IT'S
JUST THAT, UH...
I DON'T KNOW.
TONIGHT WAS A BIG STEP
IN THE LIFE OF LITTLE
JOEY POTTER.
SHE DIDN'T FEEL
SO LITTLE TONIGHT.
I GUESS I JUST TRIED
TO BITE OFF A TAD
TOO MUCH.
WELL, YOU WERE CURIOUS.
YEAH.
FOR ALL THE BIG WORDS
AND NOT WANTING TO HEAR
THE GORY DETAILS,
I GUESS
I'M JUST WRESTLING
WITH MY HORMONES
LIKE EVERYONE ELSE.
WELL, UM, YOU KNOW,
IF YOU EVER WANT TO, UH,
EXPLORE YOUR CURIOSITY...
I'M AVAILABLE.
FIRST YOU'RE A MODEL,
NOW YOU'RE A TOUR GUIDE.
NO.
I'M JUST A GUY WHO...
FINDS IT REALLY HARD
NOT TO WANT TO HOLD YOU.
AND TOUCH YOU.
AND I DIDN'T REALLY REALIZE
THAT UNTIL TONIGHT
WHEN IT WAS COMPLETELY
FORBIDDEN.
YOU HAVE
YOUR CLOTHES ON NOW.
YOU'RE SAYING
IT'S NOT FORBIDDEN?
NO. I'M JUST SAYING
IT'S, UM...
IT'S NOT AS SCARY.
GEE, THANKS.
NO, UH...
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN.
I THINK THAT, UH,
2 SCARED PEOPLE...
CANCEL EACH OTHER OUT.
MEANING?
MEANING THAT TONIGHT
WAS A NIGHT OF FIRSTS,
AND THERE'S NO REASON
THAT IT HAS TO STOP.
[♪♪♪]
[RUSTLING]
DAWSON?
DAWSON, WHAT ARE YOU
DOING HERE?
I'VE BEEN THINKING ABOUT
WHAT YOU SAID ABOUT
MOTIVE AND INTENT.
AND LOVE VS. HURT VS.
LUST VS. DISTRACTION.
AND?
DON'T ASK MY MOTIVE.
I KNOW BETTER.
UM...
WHAT'S WRONG?
UH...YOU'RE NOT
GONNA BELIEVE THIS--
FRANKLY, I DON'T
REALLY BELIEVE IT, BUT...
I DON'T WANT TO DO THIS.
YEAH, I SAID THAT OUT LOUD,
RIGHT?
YOU DON'T WANT TO?
UH, NO, NO, I DO.
GOD, DO I, BUT...
SO?
SO, FOR ONCE, PACEY WITTER'S
RAGING HORMONES
AREN'T GOING TO DO
ALL THE TALKING.
AND FOR ONCE, I'M GONNA
DO THE RIGHT THING AND...
WE'RE NOT READY
FOR THIS, ANDIE.
B-BUT I MIGHT BE READY
AND--
AT THE RISK OF SOUNDING
LIKE A REALLY CHEESY
AFTER SCHOOL SPECIAL,
WHEN YOU'RE REALLY READY,
YOU'LL KNOW,
AND THEN WE'LL DO THIS.
THEN WE'LL DO THIS
TILL THE COWS COME HOME.
BUT THIS THING
IS WAY TOO IMPORTANT
FOR ME TO JUST FALL BACK ON
THE OLD "DO NOW, THINK LATER"
PACEY WITTER APPROACH.
YOU KNOW WHAT THE REALLY
RISKY THING FOR ME TO DO IS?
IT'S TO NOT HAVE SEX.
I MEAN, MAYBE THAT WAY
I'LL HAVE SOME SEMBLANCE
OF A REAL RELATIONSHIP.
SO...
YOU TAKE ALL
THE TIME YOU NEED,
'CAUSE I'LL BE HERE.
THERE YOU GO AGAIN,
PACEY.
JUST MAKING ME WANT
TO DO IT EVEN MORE.
MMM...IT'S ALL PART
OF MY EVIL PLAN.
MMM.
COME ON.
I'LL DRIVE YOU HOME.
[♪♪♪]